RulesetConverter
2024 May 11 - 1.3.0.2


RulesetConverter is a utility that converts data from an OxC/e ruleset file to a
YAML file - MapTilesets.tpl - which contains data that can be used by MapView2.

Tilesets are stored in OxC ruleset files under YAML-nodes labeled "terrains:".

Input a .RUL file. Specify whether it's for UFO or TFTD. Enter a group-label for
the tilesets - the name of the ruleset itself appears by default. Valid
characters are restricted to ASCII minus the double-quote character. The group-
label can also be changed in MapView2 if desired.

A basepath is the parent directory of MAPS, ROUTES, and/or TERRAIN folders.

There is a checkbox to add a Basepath to the output. A basepath is needed if
your MapView2 Configurator's basepath is not the parent of the MAPS, ROUTES, and
TERRAIN folders of the ruleset's resources. That is, you do not need to specify
a basepath if MapView is (or will be) configured to use that basepath. The
Configurator's basepath can be changed under MapView2's Edit menu. On the other
hand, if you want MapView2 to keep whatever basepath it already has, and don't
want to copy the ruleset's tilesets to the resource folders of the
Configurator's basepath (which you'd have to do yourself) the tilesets need to
know where the resources are, as specified by the add Basepath option.

The converter outputs tileset configuration data to a file MapTilesets.tpl,
which gets created in the converter's directory only if tilesets are found in
the ruleset. The output is a valid YAML file that can be copied to MapView2's
/settings directory and used as-is if it's renamed to MapTilesets.yml. Instead,
I suggest copying the data inside the .TPL file to your current MapTilesets.yml
file. But don't copy the "tilesets:" line since YAML will barf if that line is
duplicated.

Note that MapView2 requires the stock XCOM cursor sprite UFOGRAPH\CURSOR.PCK+TAB
in the Configurator's basepath; and for McdView to be fully functional the
SCANG.DAT and LOFTEMPS.DAT files should also be found in the Configurator's
basepath: SCANG.DAT needs to be in a GEODATA folder and LOFTEMPS.DAT needs to be
in GEODATA for UFO or TERRAIN for TFTD (or so I've read, I don't have TFTD).

Note that MapViewII doesn't call tilesets terrains. It calls terrains terrains
and tilesets tilesets*


- kevL

* terrains are what you get in XCom TERRAIN directories; tilesets in MapView2
are a MAP file + its RMP file + its allocated terrains.


Here's a realworld example using XPiratez
-----------------------------------------
https://openxcom.org/forum/index.php/topic,9436.0.html

Hunt around in your Piratez directories for the ruleset (.RUL) that contains its
terrains. There may be more than one. but may be not.

Leave MapView's Configuration as is - that is, configured to open Maps in your
standard Xcom installation dir. (or wherever if you'd prefer to edit files in a
/scratch directory, instead of making backups)

Once you've found a Piratez ruleset that contains terrains, run
RulesetConverter.exe

browse to the ruleset
choose GameType UFO
click add Basepath
browse to the *parent folder* of the Piratez MAPS/ROUTES/TERRAIN directories

Click Convert and a MapTilesets.tpl file ought appear in the RulesetConverter's
current directory.

Then open it in a texteditor like Notepad++

Also open the MapTilesets.yml file that's in the subfolder /settings of MapView.

Copy the stuff in the .TPL file into your MapTilesets.yml file, obeying the laws
of YAML. Do not copy the "tilesets:" line, MapTilesets.yml already has one.

Save it and try running MapView


if you find more than one ruleset that you'd like to import, Rinse & Repeat ...
